<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_cm-scope">
    <title>Scope</title>
    <body>
        <p>The <wintitle>Change Managment Process</wintitle> covers all changes to IT systems
            (hardware and software assets) and policy documentation. The following items fall within
            the scope of this Change Management Processs.</p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1">
            <title>Items in Scope</title>
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Item</entry>
                        <entry>Description</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Software</entry>
                        <entry>Installation, patching, upgrade or removal of software products
                            including operating systems, commercial off-the-shelf packages,
                            internally developed packages, utilities, and desktop base
                            images</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Hardware</entry>
                        <entry>Installation, modification, removal or relocation of computing
                            equipment such as servers, storage, network printers, and network
                            equipment. Rebooting of production servers.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>System configuration</entry>
                        <entry>Moves, adds, changes and deletes such as firewall changes, access
                            methods, shared system file permission changes, secure FTP keys,
                            etc.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Databases</entry>
                        <entry>Changes to databases or files such as additions, reorganizations, and
                            major maintenance Facilities In Installation, modification, removal or
                            relocation of equipment in wiring closets, telecommunications rooms,
                            data centers including power conditioning, cooling, fire suppression,
                            and environmental monitoring/alarming systems</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Applications</entry>
                        <entry>Application changes being promoted to production, new application
                            systems being introduced, and obsolete application systems being
                            removed</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Production Schedules</entry>
                        <entry>Requests for creation, deletion, or revision to batch job schedules,
                            back-up schedules, maintenance windows or other production schedules
                            managed by IT Services In Services being moved into production, service
                            changes with significant user impact, and services being retired</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Business Continuity / Disaster Recovery Plans</entry>
                        <entry>Planning and architecture documents</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Production Documentation</entry>
                        <entry>Any changes to standards, procedures, and guidelines Non-production
                            Out Changes to non-production configuration items (CIs) or
                            resources</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Telephony System</entry>
                        <entry>Installation, modification, de-installation, or relocation of PBX
                            equipment and services</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>

        <section>
            <title>Out of Scope</title>
            <p>There are tasks performed either by the Information Security Management (ISM) Team or
                by end users, which do not fall under the policies and procedures of Change
                Management. The following items are not in scope of this Change Management
                Processs.</p>
            <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1">
                <title>Items Out of Scope</title>
                <tgroup cols="2">
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Item</entry>
                            <entry>Description</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Applications under construction</entry>
                            <entry>Applications that are in the process of being implemented are
                                controlled by the change control process established for the
                                particular project that is underway. (If out of scope, application
                                teams have the responsibility to communicate changes to any affected
                                customers.)</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Services under construction</entry>
                            <entry>Decision to commit resources and provide a new service to
                                customers, up to the time a service goes into production.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Desktop equipment </entry>
                            <entry>Any modification or relocation of individual desktop.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Desktop Owner</entry>
                            <entry>Assigning desktop equipment to a new individual or
                                system.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Telephony Units</entry>
                            <entry>Any modification or relocation of individual phone lines and desk
                                phones (maintained in Pinnacle)</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Daily administrative tasks</entry>
                            <entry>Examples include:<ul id="ul_wd4_yht_z1c">
                                    <li>End User password resets</li>
                                    <li>User adds/deletes/modifications</li>
                                    <li>Adding, deleting or revising end-user security groups and
                                        roles</li>
                                </ul></entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
