<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_cm-the-process">
    <title>Change Management Process</title>
    <shortdesc>Plan | Test | Approve | Implement | Validate | Document</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" >
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="6.17*"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry><b>Phase</b></entry>
                        <entry>Description</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry><b>Plan</b></entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>When planning the change, the Requester and Program Manager are
                                responsible for the following: </p>
                            <ul id="ul_onq_xnw_z1c">
                                <li>identifying the need for changes to production processes or
                                    systems</li>
                                <li>following the appropriate <wintitle>Change Management
                                        Process</wintitle> (Emergency, Standard, Normal)</li>
                                <li>determining the timeframe for the change</li>
                                <li>maintaining communications with stakeholders as the change
                                    progresses from inception to validation </li>
                                <li>verifying and documenting the outcome of the changes and rating
                                    their success</li>
                            </ul>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry><b>Test</b></entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>Every change must have a verification plan which will assure the
                                change is made successfully. </p>
                            <p>The individual testing the change is responsible for the
                                following:</p>
                            <ul id="ul_t4c_14w_z1c">
                                <li>developing an appropriate test plan</li>
                                <li>developing an appropriate verification plan</li>
                                <li>verifying successful test results: resolving and re-testing any
                                    issues</li>
                                <li>documenting and communicating test results</li>
                            </ul>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry><b>Approve</b></entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>The change request, test results and sign-off document must be
                                presented to the appropriate approver for review of the change to be
                                implemented. </p>
                            <p>Any exceptions to the above must be justified due to its urgency or
                                nonnegotiable due date, and reason for the exception. </p>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry><b>Implement</b></entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>The ISM Team authorizes implementation. Only changes that have been
                                approved may be implemented in a production environment.</p>
                            <p>The implementation team is responsible for the following:</p>
                            <ul id="ul_gd3_c4w_z1c">
                                <li>ensuring adequate staff is available to migrate the change</li>
                                <li>communicating the migrated change to the appropriate Program
                                    Manager</li>
                                <li> migrating successfully tested changes to the production
                                    environment </li>
                            </ul>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry><b>Validate</b></entry>
                        <entry>After implementation of a change, validation of the change must occur
                            in order to verify if the change was successful. If validation fails,
                            the change must be reverted using its back out plan.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry><b>Document</b></entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>All change requests must be formally documented, classified, and
                                prioritized to ensure they are planned for accordingly. </p>
                            <p>The <wintitle>Change Request Form</wintitle> contains detailed
                                information about the change and is required for changes submitted
                                to the ISM Team.</p>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
    </body>
</topic>
